we all have a story to tell a story that
makes us believe anything is possible a
story that inspires us to be more
ambitious and push the boundary to
achieve our dreams this is a story of a
young graduate Omanis who wanted to
become assistant driller in a drilling
rig
a man is a country of inspiration and
growth with a rapid infrastructural
developments that has led to the growth
of a vibrant economy and a multinational
society with the vision of His Majesty
Sultan Qaboos bin Saeed to the continued
development of the country's human
resources since Dalma training institute
opened its door it has been focusing on
developing human capital by offering
high technical training based on
theoretical and on job training Dharma
Training Institute runs a comprehensive
range of courses focused on increasing
the competency of drilling crews and
providing the best training to the oil
and gas sector our programme aim is to
strive nurture and support national
development programs in country value
during the 15 months of the assistant
driller training programme trainees
attend classroom modules on job training
and one-on-one coaching under the
supervision of highly qualified
technical experienced trainers and field
coaches in addition to classroom
training trainees undertake practical
drilling simulator exercises learning
the use of drilling fluid measurement
tools at the DTI laboratory
to enhance practical skills and
competencies the training curriculum
focuses on advanced theoretical modules
in direct relation with the operations
performed on a drilling site
to reach the assistant driller position
trainees must complete all the
assignments assignments and work in
different positions from roustabout to
floorman to derrickman an assistant
driller position we have observed
trainees have amble aptitude for
learning and development we trust they
will be our future leaders of oil and
gas sector in our mine
the assistant driller is a vital
position on a drilling rig ad serves as
a link between the rig manager and the
drilling team to communicate the
operational instructions
the assistant driller assumes the
responsibility of the advance
preparation and organization of the
drilling crew and equipment for the
upcoming operation and by ensuring full
compliance to the safety rules supervise
and assist in preventative maintenance
and repairs carried out on drilling
equipment such as mud pumps record and
maintain accurate measurements of
tubular and BHA dimensions monitor mud
systems and supervise solid control
equipment and mud mixing operation
maintain and organize the drilling
equipments inventory also to work under
the supervision of the driller at the
drillers console during normal drilling
operations
training builds confidence efficiency
and promotes a safe working environment
this includes decision-making creative
thinking and managing people
video drills more than 500 well Z and
therefore the assistant driller training
is one of the most important and
ambitious of national objectives
training program which will provide
eventually highly qualified and
professional manage in the field of
drilling industry
all trainees are assessed and their
progress monitored continuously during
the period of training and they are
exposed to practical aspects of drilling
a well through working on a drill
simulator to enhance their competencies
all successful candidates receive a
certification from an international
accreditation body and an endorsed
certificate from the Ministry of
Manpower we believe training for
employment is the best strategy to
support the vision of in-country value
for us training empowers people to
realize their dreams and improve their
lives in order to reach maximum human
potential investment in training is very
essential to build strong foundations
for a modern nation thank you video for
giving us this opportunity I encourage
all young women is to join icv training
program
Oh